---
title: "17th Workshop on Virtualization in High-Performance Cloud Computing"
featured_image: '/images/hamburg.png'
description: "held in conjunction with ISC-HPC, Hamburg, DE, May 29th - Jun 2nd 2022"
#omit_header_text: true
type: page
#menu: main
---

### Important Dates

### Overview

Containers and virtualization technologies constitute key enabling factors for
flexible resource management in modern data centers, and particularly in cloud
environments. Cloud providers need to manage complex infrastructures in a
seamless fashion to support the highly dynamic and heterogeneous workloads and
hosted applications customers deploy. Similarly, HPC environments have been
increasingly adopting techniques that enable flexible management of vast
computing and networking resources, close to marginal provisioning cost, which
is unprecedented in the history of scientific and commercial computing. Most
recently, Function as a Service (Faas) and Serverless computing, utilizing
lightweight VMs-containers widens the spectrum of applications that can be
deployed in a cloud environment, especially in an HPC context. Here,
HPC-provided services can be become accessible to distributed workloads outside
of large cluster environments. 

Various virtualization-containerization technologies contribute to the overall
picture in different ways: machine virtualization, with its capability to
enable consolidation of multiple under­utilized servers with heterogeneous
software and operating systems (OSes), and its capability to live­-migrate a
fully operating virtual machine (VM) with a very short downtime, enables novel
and dynamic ways to manage physical servers; OS-­level virtualization (i.e.,
containerization), with its capability to isolate multiple user­-space
environments and to allow for their co­existence within the same OS kernel,
promises to provide many of the advantages of machine virtualization with high
levels of responsiveness and performance; lastly, unikernels provide for many
virtualization benefits with a minimized OS/library surface. I/O Virtualization
in turn allows physical network interfaces to take traffic from multiple VMs or
containers; network virtualization, with its capability to create logical
network overlays that are independent of the underlying physical topology is
furthermore enabling virtualization of HPC infrastructures.


### Organization

Michael Alexander (chair), University of Vienna <mfalexand@gmail.com>

Anastassios Nanos (co-chair), Nubificus Ltd. <ananos@nubificus.co.uk>

Tommaso Cucinotta (co-chair), Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna <tommaso.cucinotta@santannapisa.it>


#### Technical Program Committee 

Stergios Anastasiadis, University of Ioannina, Greece 

Jakob Blomer, CERN, Europe 

Ron Brightwell, Sandia National Laboratories, USA 

Eduardo César, Universidad Autonoma de Barcelona, Spain

Stephen Crago, USC ISI, USA

Christoffer Dall, Columbia University, USA

Patrick Dreher, MIT, USA 

Robert Futrick, Cycle Computing, USA

Maria Girone, CERN, Europe

Kyle Hale, Northwestern University, USA 

Brian Kocoloski, University of Pittsburgh, USA

John Lange, University of Pittsburgh, USA

Che-Rung Lee, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan

Giuseppe Lettieri, University of Pisa, Italy

Qing Liu, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA

Nikos Parlavantzas, IRISA, France

Kevin Pedretti, Sandia National Laboratories, USA

Amer Qouneh, University of Florida, USA 

Carlos Reaño, Technical University of Valencia, Spain

Thomas Ryd, CFEngine, Norway

Na Zhang, VMWare, USA

Borja Sotomayor, University of Chicago, USA 

Craig Stewart, Indiana University, USA

Anata Tiwari, San Diego Supercomputer Center, USA

Kurt Tutschku, Blekinge Institute of Technology, Sweden 

Yasuhiro Watashiba, Osaka University, Japan 

Nicholas Wright, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA

Chao-Tung Yang, Tunghai University, Taiwan 



### Paper Submission-Publication

Papers submitted to the workshop will be reviewed by at least two members of
the program committee and external reviewers. Submissions should include
abstract, keywords, the e-mail address of the corresponding author, and must
not exceed 10 pages, including tables and figures at a main font size no
smaller than 11 points. 

Submission of a paper should be regarded as a commitment that, should the paper
be accepted, at least one of the authors will register and attend the
conference to present the work. 

Accepted papers will be published in a Springer LNCS volume. The format must be
according to the [Springer LNCS
Style](ftp://ftp.springernature.com/cs-proceeding/llncs/llncs2e.zip). Initial
submissions are in PDF; authors of accepted papers will be requested to provide
source files

Submission link: https://edas.info/newPaper.php?c=29178
